### Introduction

  Boer goats have become increasingly popular since the early 1990s when they arrived in America from South Africa. Since then, people hace cross-bred them with other goat breeds. Many farmers get goats with no prior knowledge to goat health and nutrition. Some believe that they can get goats and turn them loose in a woody area to clean up brush. Goats need a much better and dsteady diet than that. The goal of this organization is to inform and educate n proper goat nutrition to increase productivity, weight gain, health, and efficiency. New goat owners and small hobby farmers will be educated in proper goat nutrition and characteristics to improve the Boer goat breed.
  Goats are ruminants which mean they have a four-chambered stomach with powerful stomach acid. Becasue of this, goats need a special diet to keep their digestive system in good working order. The four parts of a goats stomach is the rumen, reticulum, omasum, and abomasum. the rumen is the first part and cointains very powerful acid to digest feed. (PICTURE OF GOAT STOMACH) To help their rumen digest food, goats need hay or some form of fiber. Otherwise, they can get bloated and not want to eat. According to Mississippi State University, "The ruminant digestive system uniquely qualifies ruminant animals such as cattle to make efficient use of high roughage feedstuffs such as forages." Cattle and goats were made to roam and eat things like brush and rough vegetation. 
  Research from the American Boer Goat Association says that a Boer goat needs a balance of water, energy, protein, minerals, and vitamins. Water is the most essential nutrient as it will affect the production, growth and general production of the animal. "Energy comes from carbohydrates (sugars, starch, and fiber) and fats in the diet." ADD MORE ON ENERGY Protein is very important in the goat's diet and is usually the most expensive component. Protein provides "a source of nitrogen for the ruminal bacteria and to supply amino acids for protein synthesis in the animal's body." Basically, providing digestable nitrogen will keep the goat's rumen functional and will create more muscle on their frame.
 Minerals need to be supplied to goats to maintain basic body function and optimum production. These minerals can b fd in different ratios with salt depending on the goat's diet. if the goat's forages are low quality, phosphorus must be suplemented. If the goat is fed a high-grain, low-forage diet, it will need a calcium supplement because alot of calcium is optained through different forages. 
  Vitamins are essential, but only in small amounts. Just like humans, goats need various vitamins to maintain overall health, energy, and vitality. 
   
